README.md, before:

# Django REST Framework - Nuxt.js - MDN Local Library

## Purpose

Once again I building a version of the Local Library [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) app created by working through the [MDN Django tutorial](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django). In this case I am extending the application through the creation of a REST API that will serve all the data to a JAMStack front end that I am building using the [Nuxt.js](https://nuxtjs.org/) meta-framework. This is another practice app to test out different ideas and approaches to building full stack applications that are nonetheless modern SPAs.

## Approach

I am using Docker and Docker Compose to encapsulate all the aspects of this application as services. This is how I am currently developing professionally and I want try and keep much of the infrastruture the same. I am using the Django development server at present but may consider adding a service for an NGINX reverse proxy server to better approximate my professional development approach.

## Outcome

Ultimately I would like to build a user interface that any community library would envy. The Nuxt.js SPA is intended to be an interface for end-users. I will be sticking to using the auto-generated Django admin site as the interface intended for Library staff. Although I may try to spruce it up a bit with some Vue.

## Motivation

The MDN tutorial broadened my understanding of application development in Django beyond what I had gathered through other sources. After working through it, I finally felt confident enough in my understanding of the framework to use it professionally. I have a ridiculous amount of fun developing with the Django framework and I'm always looking for ways to enhance my skillset.

## My Steps

In case anyone stumbles across this repo and thinks it would make a fun project to attempt, here are the steps I've taken.

1. Implement complete app structure in `docker-compose.yml` and write the necessary `Dockerfile`s
2. Work through the MDN Django tutorial as written for parts 1 - 4. Well I did change the database approach as well as working within Docker containers but that is easily copied from the aforementioned files.
3. Create an app for handling the REST API: `./manage.py createapp api`. This is mainly just used to namespace the API URLs so far but I like to take this approach.
4. Create `api_views.py` and `serializers.py` in the Catalog app. I take this approach so that all logic that pertains to that app and its models are contained there. If I wind up using that app (or any other similarly design app) in another project I don't have to track down where the DRF Viewsets or Seriliazers are defined. If the new app isn't employing a REST API, these files don't hurt anything.
5. Starting with the [MDN Django tutorial part 5](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Home_page), any work regarding building a non-admin interface will be done using the Nuxt.js front-end. This is where things start to get new and interesting (for me).

## Future Goals

These are the areas of building a fully featured app I would like to address, beyond just a basic SPA front-end

- Authentication for library patrons using Web Tokens (DRF - SimpleJWT) and `@nuxt/auth` module
- Design workflow for partons to register with the local library
- Design a notification system based on due dates for patrons who have reserved books that are due back
- Deploy my custom approach to using Django templates with AJAX requests using Vue and Axios
- Implement Nuxt composition API refactoring for pages
- Customize Nuxt.js error pages
- Develop a less cookie-cutter style
- Use the data returned by an OPTIONS request to dynamically build table headers and forms in Nuxt.js

Commit message:

Implemented SimpleJWT token authentication on the back end and nuxt/auth authentication on the front end

README.md, after:

# Django REST Framework - Nuxt.js - MDN Local Library

## Purpose

Once again I building a version of the Local Library [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) app created by working through the [MDN Django tutorial](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django). In this case I am extending the application through the creation of a REST API that will serve all the data to a JAMStack front end that I am building using the [Nuxt.js](https://nuxtjs.org/) meta-framework. This is another practice app to test out different ideas and approaches to building full stack applications that are nonetheless modern SPAs.

## Approach

I am using Docker and Docker Compose to encapsulate all the aspects of this application as services. This is how I am currently developing professionally and I want try and keep much of the infrastruture the same. I am using the Django development server at present but may consider adding a service for an NGINX reverse proxy server to better approximate my professional development approach.

## Outcome

Ultimately I would like to build a user interface that any community library would envy. The Nuxt.js SPA is intended to be an interface for end-users. I will be sticking to using the auto-generated Django admin site as the interface intended for Library staff. Although I may try to spruce it up a bit with some Vue.

## Motivation

The MDN tutorial broadened my understanding of application development in Django beyond what I had gathered through other sources. After working through it, I finally felt confident enough in my understanding of the framework to use it professionally. I have a ridiculous amount of fun developing with the Django framework and I'm always looking for ways to enhance my skillset.

## My Steps

In case anyone stumbles across this repo and thinks it would make a fun project to attempt, here are the steps I've taken.

1. Implement complete app structure in `docker-compose.yml` and write the necessary `Dockerfile`s
2. Work through the MDN Django tutorial as written for parts 1 - 4. Well I did change the database approach as well as working within Docker containers but that is easily copied from the aforementioned files.
3. Create an app for handling the REST API: `./manage.py createapp api`. This is mainly just used to namespace the API URLs so far but I like to take this approach.
4. Create `api_views.py` and `serializers.py` in the Catalog app. I take this approach so that all logic that pertains to that app and its models are contained there. If I wind up using that app (or any other similarly design app) in another project I don't have to track down where the DRF Viewsets or Seriliazers are defined. If the new app isn't employing a REST API, these files don't hurt anything.
5. Starting with the [MDN Django tutorial part 5](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Home_page), any work regarding building a non-admin interface will be done using the Nuxt.js front-end. This is where things start to get new and interesting (for me).
6. Built out Vuex store methods for working with the resources exposed by the REST API
7. Created Vuetify table component to allow server side pagination, ordering, and searching
8. Built List and Detail pages for both Books and Authors
9. Configured project to use @nuxt/auth on the front-end and SimpleJWT on the back-end for token authentication of users.

## Future Goals

These are the areas of building a fully featured app I would like to address, beyond just a basic SPA front-end

- Authentication for library patrons using Web Tokens (DRF - SimpleJWT) and `@nuxt/auth` module <- IN PROGRESS!
- Design workflow for partons to register with the local library
- Design a notification system based on due dates for patrons who have reserved books that are due back
- Deploy my custom approach to using Django templates with AJAX requests using Vue and Axios
- Implement Nuxt composition API refactoring for pages
- Customize Nuxt.js error pages
- Develop a less cookie-cutter style
- Use the data returned by an OPTIONS request to dynamically build table headers and forms in Nuxt.js <- In progress!
- Utilize the toast plugin properly to return messages to users.
- Add necessary config files to deploy back end to GCP and AWS cloud providers, front-end to Netlify.
